[DOCS-10234] Test Health (new page) (#28926)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/tests/test_health.md

further_reading:
- link: "tests/flaky_test_management"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Learn about managing flaky tests"
- link: "tests/flaky_test_management/auto_test_retries"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Learn about Auto Test Retries"
- link: "tests/test_impact_analysis"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Learn about Test Impact Analysis"
- link: "tests/flaky_test_management/early_flake_detection"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Learn about Early Flake Detection"
- link: "quality_gates"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Learn about Quality Gates"
---

## Overview

The [Test Health][5] dashboard provides analytics to help teams manage and optimize their testing in CI. This includes sections showing the current impact of test flakiness and how Test Optimization is mitigating these problems.

{{< img src="tests/test-health.png" alt="Test Health dashboard" style="width:100%;" >}}

## Summary metrics

Based on the current time frame and filters applied, the dashboard highlights the following key metrics:

- [**Pipelines Failed**](#pipelines-failed): Sum total of pipelines that failed due to flaky tests

> - [**Time Wasted in CI**](#time-wasted-in-ci): Total time wasted in CI due to flaky tests

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [**Time Wasted in CI**](#time-wasted-in-ci): Total time spent in CI due to flaky tests
```
Just to avoid echoing the term in the definition

- [**Pipelines Saved**](#pipelines-saved): How many pipelines were prevented from failing by Auto Test Retries
- [**Time Saved in CI**](#time-saved-in-ci): How much time has been saved by Test Impact Analysis and Auto Test Retries

### Pipelines Failed

This table provides details on pipeline executions, failures, and their impact on developer experience. 

| Metric | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| **Pipeline Executions with Tests**    | Number of pipeline executions with one or more test sessions. |
| **Failures Due to Flaky Tests**       | Number of pipeline executions that failed solely due to flaky tests. All tests that failed have one or more of the following tags: `@test.is_known_flaky` or `@test.is_new_flaky`. |

> | **Failures Due to Non-Flaky Tests**   | Number of pipeline executions that failed due to tests without any flakiness. All tests that failed do not have any of the following tags: `@test.is_known_flaky`, `@test.is_new_flaky`, and `@test.is_flaky`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **Failures Due to Non-Flaky Tests**   | Number of pipeline executions that failed due to tests without any flakiness. None of the failing tests have any of the following tags: `@test.is_known_flaky`, `@test.is_new_flaky`, and `@test.is_flaky`. |
```

### Time Saved in CI

This table shows how much CI usage time [Test Impact Analysis][4] and [Auto Test Retries][1] have saved.

| Metric | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| **Total Testing Time**            | Sum of the duration of all test sessions. |
| **Total Time Saved**              | Sum of time saved by Test Impact Analysis and Auto Test Retries. **% of Testing Time** is the percentage of time saved out of total testing time. Total time saved can exceed total testing time if you prevent a lot of unnecessary pipeline and job retries. |
| **Saved by Test Impact Analysis** | Total duration indicated by `@test_session.itr.time_saved`. |
| **Saved by Auto Test Retries**    | Total duration of passed test sessions in which some tests initially failed but later passed due to Auto Test Retries. These tests are tagged with `@test.is_retry:true` and `@test.is_new:false`. |

## Use cases

### Enhance developer experience
Use **Dev Experience - Test Failure Breakdown** and **Dev Experience - Time Lost Breakdown** to identify how often flaky tests in particular cause failures and waste CI time. 

> These Test Optimization features improve developer experience by alleviating test failures and wasted time:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These Test Optimization features improve developer experience by reducing test failures and wasted time:
```
Just to use a less fancy word :)

- **[Auto Test Retries][1]** reduces the likelihood a flaky test causes a pipeline to fail. This includes your known flaky tests and flaky tests that have yet to be identified. This also provides developers with confidence in test results when a test is actually broken, as it will have failed all retries.
- **[Early Flake Detection][2]**, combined with **[Quality Gates][3]**, prevents new tests that are flaky from entering your default branch.
- **[Test Impact Analysis][4]** minimizes the flaky tests that run, by only running relevant tests based on code coverage. Skipping irrelevant tests also shortens the feedback loop for developers. 

### Maximize pipeline efficiency and reduce costs

> Lengthy test suites slow down feedback loops to developers and running irrelevant tests incurs unnecessary costs. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Lengthy test suites slow down feedback loops to developers, and running irrelevant tests incurs unnecessary costs. 
```
